
#### What is The Diamond Model?

- **The Diamond Model of Intrusion Analysis** was developed by cybersecurity professionals - Sergio Caltagirone, Andrew Pendergast, and Christopher Betz in 2013.

- [As described by its creators](https://www.activeresponse.org/wp-content/uploads/2013/07/diamond.pdf), the Diamond Model is composed of four core features: adversary, infrastructure, capability, and victim, and establishes the fundamental atomic element of any intrusion activity. You might have also noticed two additional components or axes of the Diamond Model - Social, Political and Technology; we will go into a little bit more detail about them later in this room. Why is it called a "Diamond Model"? The four core features are edge-connected, representing their underlying relationships and arranged in the shape of a diamond. 

- The Diamond Model carries the essential concepts of intrusion analysis and adversary operations while allowing the flexibility to expand and encompass new ideas and concepts. The model provides various opportunities to integrate intelligence in real-time for network defence, automating correlation across events, classifying events with confidence into adversary campaigns, and forecasting adversary operations while planning and gaming mitigation strategies.


#### Why should you learn about The Diamond Model?

- The Diamond Model can help you identify the elements of an intrusion. At the end of this room, you will create a Diamond Model for events such as a breach, intrusion, attack, or incident. You will also be able to analyze an Advanced Persistent Threat (APT). 

- The Diamond Model can also help explain to other people who are non-technical about what happened during an event or any valuable information on the malicious threat actor.