
#### Who is an Adversary?

- An **adversary** is also known as an attacker, enemy, cyber threat actor, or hacker. The adversary is the person who stands behind the cyberattack. Cyberattacks can be an instruction or a breach.

- According to the creators of the Diamond Model,  an adversary is an actor or organization responsible for utilizing a capability against the victim to achieve their intent. Adversary knowledge can generally be mysterious, and this core feature is likely to be empty for most events – at least at the time of discovery. 

- It is essential to know the distinction between adversary operator and adversary customer because it will help you understand intent, attribution, adaptability, and persistence by helping to frame the relationship between an adversary and victim pair.  


- It is difficult to identify an adversary during the first stages of a cyberattack. Utilizing data collected from an incident or breach, signatures, and other relevant information can help you determine who the adversary might be.  


- **Adversary Operator** is the “hacker” or person(s) conducting the intrusion activity.

- **Adversary Customer** is the entity that stands to benefit from the activity conducted in the intrusion. It may be the same person who stands behind the adversary operator, or it may be a separate person or group.

- As an example, an adversary customer could control different operators simultaneously. Each operator might have its capabilities and infrastructure.